"R shiny"
---

Author (@slack):

Manar Tarek (@ManarTj)

Introduction

Shiny is web framework of R language. It enables R users to make web
applications directly without need to other programming languages.

R shinhy in cancer research

Several tools are developed by this package to help researchers to
analyse and visualise genomic data in addition to identification and
prediction of drug targets and drug responses respectively.

TPWshiny:

It is app developed by R Shiny package to facilitate examination of drug
responses ( anti-cancer drugs) of cell lines.

It provided by drug concentration, gene information and tissue type,
then it present analysis of the drug response inform of scatter plots,
venn diagrams, time series and heat maps.( Peter *et al* , 2022)

GNOSIS:

It is tool developed by R Shiny package enables researchers to upload
and explore their data, then it provides data visualisation and survival
statistical analysis aid in prognosis and mutation analysis. (King *et
al*, 2022)

ShinyDeepDR:

It is tool developed by r shiny package, enables prediction of
anti-cancer drugs which is most suitable for their cell line or tumor
sample within 265 anticancer drugs at GDSC. It have 2 options, find drug
which predict the most suitable drug and find sample which search for
other samples have same features in TCGA CCLE databases and find their
real or predicted drug. ( wang *et al*, 2024)

![](media/image1.png){width="1.4755555555555555in"
height="1.011111111111111in"}

( wang *et al*, 2024)

Case study

Holomics, researchers developed it to comprehensively analyse their
Datasets passing by single-omics analysis and multi-omics analysis.

They used it to analyse integrated omics of sugar beets storability
represented in transcriptomics, metabolomics and macrobiotics data.

It results insights about key factors about improving sugar beets
storability. ( Munk *et al*, 2024)

Conclusion

R shiny package is useful web application for R users and biologists who
don\'t have strong programming skills. It can be used to analyze,
visualise biological data and could be integrated with other databases
or softwares.

References

1.[[https://rbasics.org/packages/shiny-package-in-r/]{.underline}](https://rbasics.org/packages/shiny-package-in-r/).

2\. Li-Ju Wang, Michael Ning, Tapsya Nayak, Michael J. Kasper,
Satdarshan P. Monga, Yufei Huang, Yidong Chen, Yu-Chiao
Chiu,shinyDeepDR: A user-friendly R Shiny app for predicting anti-cancer
drug response using deep learning.Patterns,Volume 5, Issue
2,2024,100894,ISSN 2666-3899.

[[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patter.2023.100894]{.underline}](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patter.2023.100894).

3.Zhang P, Palmisano A, Kumar R, Li MC, Doroshow JH, Zhao Y. TPWshiny:
an interactive R/Shiny app to explore cell line transcriptional
responses to anti-cancer drugs. Bioinformatics. 2022 Jan
3;38(2):570-572.

[[https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btab619]{.underline}](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btab619).

4.King L, Flaus A, Coughlan S et al. GNOSIS: an R Shiny app supporting
cancer genomics survival analysis with cBioPortal,HRB Open Res 2022, 5:8
[[https://doi.org/10.12688/hrbopenres.13476.2]{.underline}](https://doi.org/10.12688/hrbopenres.13476.2).

5\. Munk, K., Ilina, D., Ziemba, L. et al. Holomics - a user-friendly R
shiny application for multi-omics data integration and analysis. BMC
Bioinformatics 25, 93 (2024).
[[https://doi.org/10.1186/s12859-024-05719-4]{.underline}](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12859-024-05719-4).
